README.md, before:

# FreeCAD SheetMetal Workbench
A simple sheet metal workbench for FreeCAD

![Demo Workflow](../master/Resources/SheetMetal4.gif)

# Terminology 

![Terminology](./tools/terminology.png)

# Test case 

As a simple test case, consider the following example: 

* Inputs: 
    - Thickness: 2mm 
    - K-factor: 0.38
    - Leg length: 48.12mm
    - Inner effective radius: 1.64mm
    - Flange length: 51.76mm
* Output
    - End to mold-line distance: 50mm

You can find a simple calculator in `./tools/calc-unfold.py`. 

#### Developers:
* Folding tools:  Shai Seger [@shaise](https://github.com/shaise)<br/>
                  [@jaisejames] https://github.com/jaisekjames<br/>
                  Based and inspired by Javier Martínez's ([@JMG1](https://github.com/JMG1)) code
* Unfolding tool: Copyright 2014 by Ulrich Brammer <ulrich1a[at]users.sourceforge.net> AKA [@ulrich1a](https://github.com/ulrich1a)

#### Installation
For installation and how to use, please visit:  
http://theseger.com/projects/2015/06/sheet-metal-addon-for-freecad/  
Starting from FreeCAD 0.17 it can be installed via the [Addon Manager](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-addons) (from Tools menu)

#### Release notes: 
* V0.2.30 30 Mar 2019:  Added Fold-on-sketch-line tool by jaisejames. Thank you!
* V0.2.22 24 Jan 2019:  Fix some typos, Issue #54
* V0.2.21 20 Jan 2019:  Fix some typos, Issue #52
* V0.2.20 10 Jan 2019:  Added sheetmetal generation from base wire by jaisejames. Thank you!
* V0.2.10 01 Nov 2018:  Merge new features by jaisejames. Thank you!
** Added Edge based selection
** Added Auto-mitering
** Added Sketch based Wall
** Added Sketch based Guided wall
** Added Relief factor
** Added Material Inside, thk inside, Offset options
* V0.2.04 21 Sep 2018:  Fix K-Factor bug
* V0.2.03 20 Sep 2018:  Merge easyw PR: Add separate color for inner sketch lines. (issue #46). Change Gui layout
* V0.2.02 15 Sep 2018:  Add color selection for unfold sketches (issue #41)
* V0.2.01 15 Sep 2018:  Fix bug when not generating sketch (issue #42). Support separate color for bend lines (issue #41)
* V0.2.00 04 Sep 2018:  Make SheetMetal compatible with Python 3 and QT 5
* V0.1.40 20 Aug 2018:  Merge Ulrich's V20 unfolder script - supports many more sheet metal cases and more robust
* V0.1.32 25 Jun 2018:  New feature: Option to separately unfold bends. Thank you jaisejames!
* V0.1.31 25 Jun 2018:  Support ellipses and parabolas, Try standard sketch conversion first
* V0.1.30 25 Jun 2018:  <br/>
New feature: Generate unfold sketch with folding marks. Issue #33. Thank you easyw-fc! <br/>
New feature: K-Factor foe unfolding is now editable. Issue #30 <br/>
* V0.1.21 19 Jun 2018:  Fixed back negative bend angles, restrict miter to +/- 80 degrees
* V0.1.20 19 Jun 2018:  <br/>
Add bend extension to make the bended wall wider<br/>
Add relief shape selection (rounded or flat)<br/>
Double clicking on a bent in the tree view, brings a dialog to select different faces (good when editing the base object breaks the bend, and new faces need to be selected)<br/>
Setting miter angle now works with unfold command<br/>
Thank you jaisejames for all these new features!!
* V0.1.13 10 May 2018:  Change unbending method so shape refinement can work.
* V0.1.12 25 Mar 2018:  Allow negative bend angles. Change XPM icons to SVG
* V0.1.11 01 Feb 2018:  fix Issue #23: when there is a gap only on one side, an extra face is added to the other
* V0.1.10 11 Nov 2017:  Add miter option to bends. By @jaisejames
* V0.1.02 22 Jun 2017:  Fix nesting bug, when saving and loading file
* V0.1.01 03 Mar 2017:  Support version 0.17. (strting from build 10423)
* V0.0.13 07 Sep 2015:  Add negative gaps for extrude function. (per deveee request)
* V0.012  07 Sep 2015:  Fix issue submitted by deveee
* V0.010  13 Jun 2015:  Add Ulrich's great unfolding tool. Thanks!!!
* V0.002  12 Jun 2015:  Fix Save/Load issues  
* V0.001  11 Jun 2015:  Initial version

Commit message:

added directions for creating Material Definition Sheet

README.md, after:

# FreeCAD SheetMetal Workbench
A simple sheet metal workbench for FreeCAD

![Demo Workflow](../master/Resources/SheetMetal4.gif)

# Terminology 

![Terminology](./tools/terminology.png)

# Test case 

As a simple test case, consider the following example: 

* Inputs: 
    - Thickness: 2mm 
    - K-factor: 0.38 (ANSI)
    - Leg length: 48.12mm
    - Inner effective radius: 1.64mm
    - Flange length: 51.76mm
* Output
    - End to mold-line distance: 50mm

You can find a simple calculator in `./tools/calc-unfold.py`. 

# Material Definition Sheet 

You can use a Spreadsheet object to declare K-factor values inside the project file permanently. This will allow: 

* Different K-factor values to be used for each bend in your model 
* Sharing the same material definition for multiple objects 
* Unattended unfold (required for ["Unfold Updater" macro](./Macros/SheetMetalUnfoldUpdater.FCMacro))

To use the Material Definition Sheet, follow the steps:

1. Determine your material name (eg. `foo`)
2. Add `_material_foo` postfix to your shape's Label.
3. Create a spreadsheet with the name of `material_foo`
4. Create a table layout in `material_foo`, like the following (see [this table](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6639874/56498031-b017bc00-6508-11e9-8b14-6076513d8488.png)): 

    > Note that the column names are case/space sensitive. 

    | Radius / Thickness | K-factor | Options | | 
    | ---| ---| --- | --- |
    | 1 | 0.38 | K-factor standard | ANSI |
    | 3 | 0.43 | | |
    | 99 | 0.5 | | |

5. Unfold as usual.

[Here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6639874/56642679-a749f600-6680-11e9-944a-82e447d9dc4e.gif) is a screencast in action.
 

#### Developers:
* Folding tools:  Shai Seger [@shaise](https://github.com/shaise)<br/>
                  [@jaisejames] https://github.com/jaisekjames<br/>
                  Based and inspired by Javier Martínez's ([@JMG1](https://github.com/JMG1)) code
* Unfolding tool: Copyright 2014 by Ulrich Brammer <ulrich1a[at]users.sourceforge.net> AKA [@ulrich1a](https://github.com/ulrich1a)

#### Installation
For installation and how to use, please visit:  
http://theseger.com/projects/2015/06/sheet-metal-addon-for-freecad/  
Starting from FreeCAD 0.17 it can be installed via the [Addon Manager](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-addons) (from Tools menu)

#### Release notes: 
* V0.2.30 30 Mar 2019:  Added Fold-on-sketch-line tool by jaisejames. Thank you!
* V0.2.22 24 Jan 2019:  Fix some typos, Issue #54
* V0.2.21 20 Jan 2019:  Fix some typos, Issue #52
* V0.2.20 10 Jan 2019:  Added sheetmetal generation from base wire by jaisejames. Thank you!
* V0.2.10 01 Nov 2018:  Merge new features by jaisejames. Thank you!
** Added Edge based selection
** Added Auto-mitering
** Added Sketch based Wall
** Added Sketch based Guided wall
** Added Relief factor
** Added Material Inside, thk inside, Offset options
* V0.2.04 21 Sep 2018:  Fix K-Factor bug
* V0.2.03 20 Sep 2018:  Merge easyw PR: Add separate color for inner sketch lines. (issue #46). Change Gui layout
* V0.2.02 15 Sep 2018:  Add color selection for unfold sketches (issue #41)
* V0.2.01 15 Sep 2018:  Fix bug when not generating sketch (issue #42). Support separate color for bend lines (issue #41)
* V0.2.00 04 Sep 2018:  Make SheetMetal compatible with Python 3 and QT 5
* V0.1.40 20 Aug 2018:  Merge Ulrich's V20 unfolder script - supports many more sheet metal cases and more robust
* V0.1.32 25 Jun 2018:  New feature: Option to separately unfold bends. Thank you jaisejames!
* V0.1.31 25 Jun 2018:  Support ellipses and parabolas, Try standard sketch conversion first
* V0.1.30 25 Jun 2018:  <br/>
New feature: Generate unfold sketch with folding marks. Issue #33. Thank you easyw-fc! <br/>
New feature: K-Factor foe unfolding is now editable. Issue #30 <br/>
* V0.1.21 19 Jun 2018:  Fixed back negative bend angles, restrict miter to +/- 80 degrees
* V0.1.20 19 Jun 2018:  <br/>
Add bend extension to make the bended wall wider<br/>
Add relief shape selection (rounded or flat)<br/>
Double clicking on a bent in the tree view, brings a dialog to select different faces (good when editing the base object breaks the bend, and new faces need to be selected)<br/>
Setting miter angle now works with unfold command<br/>
Thank you jaisejames for all these new features!!
* V0.1.13 10 May 2018:  Change unbending method so shape refinement can work.
* V0.1.12 25 Mar 2018:  Allow negative bend angles. Change XPM icons to SVG
* V0.1.11 01 Feb 2018:  fix Issue #23: when there is a gap only on one side, an extra face is added to the other
* V0.1.10 11 Nov 2017:  Add miter option to bends. By @jaisejames
* V0.1.02 22 Jun 2017:  Fix nesting bug, when saving and loading file
* V0.1.01 03 Mar 2017:  Support version 0.17. (strting from build 10423)
* V0.0.13 07 Sep 2015:  Add negative gaps for extrude function. (per deveee request)
* V0.012  07 Sep 2015:  Fix issue submitted by deveee
* V0.010  13 Jun 2015:  Add Ulrich's great unfolding tool. Thanks!!!
* V0.002  12 Jun 2015:  Fix Save/Load issues  
* V0.001  11 Jun 2015:  Initial version
